About Hannah Arendt and her vision on Public and Private spaces. 
“There is nothing new under the sun”, according to the Ecclesiast and this is even more relevant when it comes to some phenomenon considered by some of us as “revolutionary” and by some others as another expression of a palimpsest. We’re speaking about the Blockchain Episteme. Since 2008 and related to the Bitcoin infatuation, a new way of considering the knowledge, its way of storing and the way of transferring it is discussed by scholars and developed by businesses all over the world. Behind this so-called revolution, we find some of the most interesting technological challenges for sure but also a modern expression of one of the most basic and discussed frontier in human life, the one that separates the private space from the public one. From the Greek Polis to Hannah Arendt’s Human Condition, let’s discover the roots of a dichotomous space separating the “family” from the “politics”. 


Lacan and his Mirror Stage are far behind us when it comes to the egology trend we are facing since more than a decade, via the dawn of the social media and the instantaneity of the youngest-among-us’s feelings.
 In 1958, Hannah Arendt published an original essay in philosophical anthropology, The Human Condition. In this work, the German-American thinker pleaded for a tripartite division among the human activities of work, labor, and action. 
Within her vision and her approach, Arendt brought up for debate the relationship between the political (polis)  and the social (oikos). Underlined by the author of Eichmann in Jerusalem, the demarcation line between what is private and what is public comes from ancient Greece when the first democrats in human history, considered that the individual had received a “second existence” beyond his private life. According to the ancient Greeks, the polis, meaning the public state, was not a given fact of life. Moreover, it opposed it as a singular human idea through the fact that it escaped the natural need. Indeed, according to the Ancient Greeks, the home and the family (the private area) represented the place of the biological of the natural need, expressed by a strict and inequality-based hierarchy. 
Individual needs used to be expressed in the private sphere when the collective ones were essentially dealt in public space. 
According to Heidegger former student,  due to the decline of the family nucleus and the fact societies became a kind of big families, the individuality got more and more room in the public space where each ad the chance to demonstrate that he or she was the best in something. 
Arendt gave a special importance in her discourse to the relationship between the public and the private and their permanent dynamics. According to her, the public area designated “what is common”. By “common” we shall understand what is seen, perceived by everybody with no distinction and/or barriers. But “common” equals also the world which is common to all of us, a unitary “tout” which “assembles all of us together and permanently”. For some scholars, the existence of reality itself is an aspect which comes from the feeling related to “what is common”. This unitary “tout”  to which all of us belong to, can be considered as one of the pillars of the Christian “corpus”, seen as humanity, starting from the model of the human body. The forming parts of this corpus were the individuals. 
